All right in this lecture we're going to go over how to use detail and in value to create space in your
drawings.
So we're going to be drawing a picture of a mountain range with a forest in front of it.
So let's go ahead and get started.
The first thing we want to do is we want to sketch out where we want our mountain range to be.
So I want it to go about in the middle of my composition so I don't have one mountain right there and
I have another one to come through here.
So and then I'm to have a second mountain range behind that.
So go ahead and create another mountain range back here.
So and then I want to go ahead and draw in where my trees are going to be.
So basically they're going to be pine trees and so they're basically going to be tall skinny triangles
so I'm going to skip those and just by sketching in some basic triangles.
All right.
So next we're on want to do is I want to start with my foreground so my foreground is whatever is closest
to me.
And this is going to be the darkest thing on my image because it's the closest the further away things
get Remember they get lighter.
And so this will be our tree line right here.
So we're going to go ahead and fill these in really dark.
And I'm going to speed this section up because this is going to take a little while.
So let's go ahead and get started.
All right.
So now that we have our tree line put it in and this is the darkest part of our whole entire image we're
going to go ahead and move on to the second layer of our mountain range.
So like I said there's two layers.
There's this first one and then there's this one behind it.
So this first one is going to be lighter than these trees but it's going to be darker than these back
mountains.
This first layer of mountains is also going to have more detail than this back layer of mountains.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So first off I'm going to go ahead and decide where the edges of my mountains are.
So we need to divide this so we can add in some highlights and values in there.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and let's start adding in some highlights and shadows.
So I want to go ahead and start with this side and I'm just going to slowly start shitting at them and
don't forget we want it to be lighter than our tree layer.
Right now I'm going to go ahead and Durcan these edges just a little bit more.
We have a little bit more definition.
I'm going to go ahead and add a layer of that value over the top of all this.
A darker value.
So that way we have from Derocher mountains so that these mountains back here can stand out a little
bit more.
Then just really quick we'll go back over all these chateaus on a mountain just to darken them.
So they sent out a bit more also also
and then I'm just going to add a little bit of a darker contrarian line across the top of this mountain
range so I have that right there that right there.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and move on to these background mountains so I'm just going to go ahead and very
very lightly fill those in
aren't.
Now this drawing is basically done.
Now if you wanted to spend hours and hours making a drawing like this look amazing you wouldn't necessarily
have these contour lines along these edges and you wouldn't you would have a lot more detail on it.
But for now we're just going to leave it like this because I just wanted to demonstrate to you how you
use value in detail to create depth and space in your image.
So first off let's talk about how we used the values in our drawing.
So we started with our troops which are the closest things and the closer things are at the darker we
want the value to be.
So the trees are the darkest part because they are the closest.
Then the next darkest part is this First a mountain range.
It has the most value compared to this Bakra mountain.
And this Bakare mountain has almost no value at all in anything that has the least value is a sky.
Now in every case it's not going to be exactly the same.
You can have something white in your foreground or background sky might actually be dark Greys because
it's a cloudy stormy day.
But generally the further something is away the lighter it's going to be.
And then let's talk about details.
So our trees have some detail but not too much because they're really dark.
And then we look at a mountain range.
The first layer of mountain range has a lot of detail you can see all the shallowing on it.
You can see where the edge of the mountain is on each one of these peaks.
But then if we have a look at these mountains that are further away there's really no detail on it at
all.
We just see the the contouring line on top of them and then we just have a value that filled them all
completely and with the same exact value.
So there's not really any detail because of how far away they are.
Now if you wanted to take it a step further you could also blend this value into your sky just slightly
so it would just be a very light blend of so.
So and that way it would sort of soften that edge and make it look a little bit out of focus.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to use value in detail to create space in your drawings.
So what I want you to do now is I want you to redraw this image or you can even go outside and find
something to draw such as a car with a building behind it whatever you want and try to apply this to
it.
So make whatever is closest have darker values and whatever is further away have lighter values also
make things that are close up have more detail in the things that are further away give them less detail.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.